# ITBA3204-PROJECT-CAPA
This repository is solely for our final requirement in BAT404-Analytics and Techniques Tools. 
## INTRODUCTION
Education plays a key role in each of our lives and is essential for every one of us to reach our full potential. It is the process through which we gain the skills, knowledge, information, and understanding required to recognize, appreciate, and uphold the obligations we have to our families, communities, and nation [1]. Dr. Jose Rizal once remarked that "the youth are the hope of the land." The youth of today will be able to support such statement via education. 
However, there’s one truth that cannot be neglected. . The number of youths who are not in school has been steadily increasing over time. Out-of-school children and youth are described as those between the ages of 6 and 24 who are not in school, have not completed any post-secondary coursework, and are not employed.[2] This issue is a significant concern in the Philippines. According to data from the Philippine Statistical Authority for 2017, 3.53 million, or 9%, of the projected 39.2 Filipinos between the ages of 6 and 24 were classified as OSYs. 83.1 percent of those people were between the ages of 16 and 24, 11.2 percent were between the ages of 12 and 15, and 5.7 percent were between the ages of 6 and 11. As of Aug. 11, 2020, the DepEd noted that some 23 million have enrolled in both public and private schools, a significant reduction from the 27.7 million enrollees in 2019. [3] Statistics also revealed that female out of school youth have higher counts compared to male.
The analysis will focus on Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4, “Quality Education”, which aims ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all and in relevance to Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 1, “No Poverty”, which aims to end poverty in all its forms everywhere. The analysis seeks to contribute to the achievement of SDG 1 and 4 by providing a comprehensive overview of out-of-school youth in the Philippines, examining the causes and consequences of the issue and analyzing current efforts to address it. By shedding light on this important topic, this analysis aims to inform policy and practice and contribute to the ongoing efforts to improve the lives of young people in the Philippines.
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/113650068/232663167-92319e80-db9d-4307-b6eb-8cd370b85ad7.png
## PROBLEM STATEMENT
Absence from school has serious effects. Lack of education results in fewer work options and lower earning potential for young people, making it challenging for them to leave poverty and provide for their families. Also, they are more susceptible to exploitation and other dangers, such as taking part in criminal activity. That is a destructive cycle. Lack of education causes poverty and low-paying occupations, which make it difficult for people to support their children's education. As a result, they are unable to escape the cycle of poverty. [4] This would have a significant impact on the nation's future, contributing to higher poverty and slower economic growth.
## SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
The analysis on out-of-school children and youth in the Philippines has significant implications for examining the causes and consequences of the issue. With the comprehensive approach, policymakers would be provided with information that would be simple to analyze thus consuming less time on dealing with the problem. That will greatly aid in enhancing the government's ongoing efforts. With the help of this analysis, other people will also have a complete grasp of the problem. Educating them on how they can help eradicate the problem in question.
	Furthermore, this analysis can contribute to the advancement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4, “Quality Education”, and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 1, “No Poverty”, which has a purpose of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all and ending poverty in all its forms everywhere respectively. By providing analytics with comprehensive approach, the analysis can contribute to the ongoing efforts of the policymakers in the Philippines while promoting sustainable development.

## METHODS

## EXPECTED OUTPUT

## REFERENCES
[1] https://leverageedu.com/blog/importance-of-education/
[2]https://psa.gov.ph/content/out-school-children-and-youth-philippines-results-2013-functional-literacy-education and#:~:text=Out%2Dof%2Dschool%20children%20is,course%2C%20and%20are%20not%20working.
3. https://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1129909
4.https://www.ecoleglobale.com/blog/the-lack-of-education-cause-poverty/#:~:text=In%20many%20cases%2C%20education%20is,what%20little%20money%20they%20have.
